# Takahe

Takahe is an extension to Heloise Stevance's [hoki code](http://github.com/HeloiseS/hoki), which interfaces with [BPASS](bpass.auckland.ac.nz). It is designed to pick up where hoki leaves off, and allow the user to specify binary star systems from the BPASS library, and propagate those in time to investigate binary star mergers. As part of that, takahe can\* serve as a whole-universe simulation.

\*can implies "will be able to in the nearish future".

## Installation

Installation is handled via pip. Currently the package is not released on pypi but can be installed with `pip install -e .` in the root directory.

## RTFM

You can read the documentation up on my website: [Click Here!](https://krytic.github.io/Takahe/index.html)

API documentation reflects the current state of the most recent stable release and is autogenerated upon release.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Master is considered to be bleeding-edge, and stable releases are tagged.

## Miscellanea

### Citing

A paper will be forthcoming in the future. In the meantime please use the following BibTeX entry:

	@misc{takahe,
		title = {Takahe: Binary Star Systems with BPASS},
		author = {Richards, Sean},
		howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/krytic/takahe}},
		year = {2020}
	}

### The name "Takahe"

The name Takahe conforms to the naming convention employed by Eldridge, Stanway, Stevance, et al. BPASS releases are named after native creatures from New Zealand (e.g. Tuatara, the current version, is named for the native reptile known as the "living fossil"), as is hoki (being named for a fish). The Takahe is a native endangered flightless bird to New Zealand.